Add advanced shipyard usage documentation (#122)
submariner-io/submariner-website: src/content/contributing/shipyard/advanced/_index.en.md

---
title: "Advanced Features"
date: 2020-05-05T09:11:00+0300
weight: 20
---

Shipyard has many advanced features to use in consuming projects.

To utilize an advanced feature in a project consuming Shipyard, a good practice is to change the project's Makefile to have the advanced logic that is always needed. Any variable functionality can then be passed as desired in the command line.

## Image Building Helper Script

Shipyard ships an image building script `build_image.sh` which can be used to build the image(s) that you require. The script has built in caching capabilities to speed up local and pull request CI builds, by utilizing docker's ability to reuse layers from a cached image.

The script accepts several flags:
* **tag:** The tag to set for the local image (defaults to *dev*).
* **repo:** The repo portion to use for the image name.
* **image (-i):** The image name itself.
* **dockerfile (-f):** The Dockerfile to build the image from.
* **[no]cache:** Turns the caching on (or off).

For example, to build the submariner image use:
```bash
${SCRIPTS_DIR}/build_image.sh -i submariner -f package/Dockerfile
```

## Deployment Scripts Features

### Per Cluster Settings

> Shipyard supports specifying variuos settings per deployed cluster. A default `cluster_settings` is supplied in the image, so any custom settings override those.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shipyard supports specifying different settings for each deployed cluster. A default `cluster_settings` is supplied in the image, so any custom settings override those.
```

The settings are sent to supporting scripts using a `--cluster_settings` flag.

> Currently, several settings are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the following settings are supported:
```

* **clusters:** An array of the clusters to deploy.
  ```bash
  clusters=(cluster1,cluster2)
  ```
* **cluster_nodes:** A map of cluster names to a space separated string, representing a list of nodes to deploy. Supported values are `control-plane` and `worker`.
  ```bash
  cluster_nodes[cluster1]="control-plane worker"
  cluster_nodes[cluster2]="control-plane worker worker"
  ```
* **cluster_subm:** A map of cluster names to values specifying if Submariner should be installed. Set to `true` to have Submariner installed, or to `false` to skip the installation.
  ```bash
  cluster_subm[cluster1]="false"
  cluster_subm[cluster2]="true"
  ```

#### Example: Custom Per Cluster Settings

As an example, in order to customize the clusters to have two workers, and no submariner on the 1st cluster, create a `cluster_settings` file in the project:

```bash
cluster_nodes['cluster1']="control-plane"
cluster_nodes['cluster2']="control-plane worker worker"
cluster_nodes['cluster3']="control-plane worker worker"
cluster_subm['cluster1']="false"
```

> Then, to utilize these settings, add this snippet to the Makefile:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, to apply these settings, add this snippet to the Makefile:
```

Overuse of “utilize” makes me unhappy ;-).

```Makefile
CLUSTER_SETTINGS_FLAG = --cluster_settings $(DAPPER_SOURCE)/path/to/cluster_settings
CLUSTERS_ARGS += $(CLUSTER_SETTINGS_FLAG)
DEPLOY_ARGS += $(CLUSTER_SETTINGS_FLAG)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The path to `cluster_settings` should be specified relative to the project root; this ends up available in the build container in the directory referenced by `$DAPPER_SOURCE`.

```
